This is again yet another important Java concept that is encapsulation.
So what is encapsulation?
It is defined as a wrapping up of data under a single unit that is inside the capsule.
The density captured.
Right.
It is the mechanism that binds together code and the data it manipulates.
Another way to think about encapsulation is it is a protective shield that prevents the data from being
accessed by the cold outside the shield.
Technically, in encapsulation, the variables or data of a class is hidden from any other class and
can be access only to any member functions of its own class, of its own class in which it is declared.
As an encapsulation, the data in a class is hidden from another class, using the data hiding concept,
which is achieved by making the member methods of the class private and the class is exposed to the
end user or the world without providing any details behind implementation implementation using the abstraction
concept.
So it is also known as a combination of data hiding and data abstraction.
Encapsulation can be achieved by declaring all the variables in the class as a private and writing public
methods in the class to actually set and get the values, make the member variables private, and use
the public methods to set some values and get some values.
That is also one of the thing.
The example we can use to explain encapsulation is a use case commonly used in encapsulation.
So what are the advantages of encapsulation data hiding?
Oh that is, the user will have no idea about the inner implementation of the class.
Yes, it will not be visible to the user.
How the class is storing the values in the variable.
The user will only know what that we are passing.
The values using the sector methods and new variables are getting initialized inside that it increases
the flexibility we can make.
The variables of the class read only or write only depending on our requirement.
If you wish to make the variables read only, then we have to omit the sector methods like set names,
id, age, etc. from the about program.
Or if we wish to make the variable as a write only then we can all mitigator methods.
We are just allowed to write to those variables.
Then the reusability encapsulation also improves the usability and is easy to change with the new requirements.
Encapsulated code is very easy for unit testing.
Okay, so now let us get to the example of encapsulation and understand the concept in detail.
So in encapsulation or as we said here, we can make the class encapsulated by initial by making all
its variable as a private seed as this methods this.
So it is so variable and we make this as private, but we made the methods that public.
So we want to give these methods available for other classes to get the value of the variable or to
set the value of the variables.
Now we saw in the flexibility point here, if we want to make it only, do it only and we don't want
to say allow users to set any values or write any values, then we will not make these public sector
methods.
We can make this method as a private and if we want to make one layer right and don't allow user to
fetch the values, then we can make get methods getter method as a private.
Okay.
So for this, the private members or the get the method will get the values and certain methods will
set the values.
Right now let us create another class with the main method we create object of the encapsulate class.
And this said the values of name, age and roll number.
And then we will use this object to get the name, age and roll number and printing it here.
Okay, so this is as simple as this.
So it's like you make the member variables private, method private and encapsulate and hide the behavior
of the members member functions and member variables.
Now, let us on this.
See whatever values I to the private member functions of another class, you can get it.
But the functionality of how it is said we can keep it inside it and we get hide encapsulated.
Okay, so this is a simple example of encapsulation.
Try it yourself.
If you if you have any questions, you can write back to me.
Thank you for watching.